
                         CONES

                           OF

                        DUNSHIRE


                     RULES OF PLAY

                     8 to 12 players

OBJECT:
To acquire cones via trade, purchase, advancement, and
scavenging. First player with four cones wins.

PLAYERS:
2 Wizards, 1 Maverick, 1 Arbiter, 1 Ledgerman, 0-1
Corporal, 1-2 Warriors

Gameplay with two Warriors is highly recommended for
optimal conditions. Play as Maverick should be reserved
for more experienced players. The Ledgerman must
wear his hat at all times; negligence or refusal to do so is
punishable by loss of turn.

GAME COMPONENTS:
    - 34 Terrain Hexes
    - 21 Cones of Dunshire
    - 15 Sub-cones (Cones of B________)
    - 40 Spirit Cards (20 Positive, 10 Negative, 10 Chaotic)
    - 60 Agriculture Cards (15 Harvest, 20 Irrigation, 5 Famine)
    - 300 Armies divided as such among the players
        Wizards: 50
        Maverick: 25
        Arbiter: 25
        Corporal: 100
        Warriors: 25
    - 36 dice (12 small dice, 12 large dice, 12 special dice)
    - 1 Dragon
    - 20 Soldiers of Fortune*
    - 35 Nautical Vessels* (20 Schooners, 15 Submarines)
    - 12 Clerical Cards*
    - 12 Climate Cards*
    - 40 Expansion Hexes*

  * EXPANSION PACK ONLY

TURN OVERVIEW:
Each turn is composed of seven components:

1. Roll
Each roll begins with a pre-roll to determine how many
dice are used for each roll. Select 3 small dice and 1
large die for pre-roll; roll these 4 dice on to the game
board. The Pre-Roll Sum ("P-RS") of the pips repre-
sents the number of dice to be used for Player's Roll.
Player then chooses P-RS number of dice for his roll,
with no more than ten (10) small dice and no more than
six (6) special dice to be used at any time. The Roll
Sum ("RS") of pips represents the player's currency
moving forward for current turn.

          ----

      continued...

2. Buy
Player now has RS currency with which to purchase
reserves. Mavericks and Corporals may choose to play
Resource Doublers at this time, in which case they
begin with RSx2. (Resource Doubling is not permitted
at any point in Challenge Mode OR after Wizard
induces Cathartic Freeze.) Player must announce his
intention to buy before each turn begins.
All purchasing must be made in exchange with the
Ledgerman. Any remaining resources after purchase
may be either (a) left unused by the player or (b) trans-
ferred to Arbiter at a rate of three (3) resources to
exchange for one (1) Agriculture Card (excluding
Famine Cards).

A player may ONLY purchase a cone if his armies are
advanced beyond The Front of Tragarum. The only
exception is, of course, the Maverick, who may
purchase cones regardless of position of armies IF
AND ONLY IF he has induced Paramilitary Disruption.

3. Action
Player may now choose to play any Action Cards
(Agriculture or Spirit). If Wizard currently possesses
power of sorcery, he may deny player from playing any
action cards ONLY IF all players have acquired their
third sub-cones (i.e., all players have completed First
Stage of Civilization).

4. Option to Scavenge
All players -- excluding Second Warrior -- may choose
to scavenge on any turn, regardless of the number of
cones or sub-cones they currently have. See chart on p.
6 for Expected Rates of Casualty for each possible
scavenge combination.

5. Build
Players who wish to build may do so only after those
who have been Scavenged have replaced or retreated
their armies. If player has denied option to scavenge,
only the Corporal may retreat armies. Player shall roll
P-RS number of dice to determine his Building
Multiplier. Player must build in the following order:
    - Barracks
    - Houses
    - Forts and/or Bunkers
    - Industrial Corridor
    - Commercial Corridor
    - Transportation Hubs

6. Second Buy
Players choosing to buy a second round of resources
can only use (a) unused currency from first by or (b)
any currency donated or traded by Arbiter to exchange
for Spirit or Agriculture Cards.

7. Advance
Player advances his Main Avatar by RS/2 (Roll Sum
divided by two, rounded down) hexes, and may choose
to advance armies by RS/4 hexes (rounded up). Player
conculdes his turn by passing dice to the player seated
to his left.
